.TH GRON.JQ 1 2026-06-26 gron-jq "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gron.jq \- flatten JSON into greppable assignments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gron.jq
.RI [ file ...]
.br
.B jq \-rf gron.jq
.RI [ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gron.jq
rewrites JSON as a sequence of assignments, one per line, of the form
\fIpath\fR = \fIvalue\fR; where \fIpath\fR is a jq path expression pointing at a
leaf and \fIvalue\fR is that leaf encoded as JSON. The flat, line-oriented form
lets you process deeply nested JSON with tools such as
.BR grep (1),
.BR awk (1),
and
.BR sort (1).
.PP
Each line stands on its own, so lines can be filtered, reordered, or removed and
the result still reconstructs with
.BR ungron.jq (1).
.PP
A leaf is a scalar or an empty array or object; every other node is expanded
into its leaves. Object keys that look like identifiers use a leading dot, as in
\fI.foo\fR. Other keys and all array indices use bracket form, such as
\fI["foo bar"]\fR or \fI[0]\fR. When the whole document is itself a leaf it has
no path, so it is written with a lone dot, as in \fI. = 42;\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.B gron.jq
is a jq program and has no options of its own. It runs through
.BR jq (1)
in raw output mode; the
.B \-r
flag is part of the script shebang, so running
.B gron.jq
directly already applies it.
.SH EXAMPLES
Flatten an object:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ echo '{"items":[{"kind":"Pod"}]}' | gron.jq
\&.items[0].kind = "Pod";
.EE
.RE
.PP
Keep one subtree with grep, then rebuild it:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ echo '{"a":1,"items":[2]}' | gron.jq | grep items | ungron.jq \-c
{"items":[2]}
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 on success, or non-zero if
.BR jq (1)
cannot parse the input.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Every path is built in memory before anything is printed, so the input must fit
in memory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ungron.jq (1),
.BR jq (1)
.PP
gron:
.I https://github.com/tomnomnom/gron
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the gron-jq dotfiles package.
