.TH UNGRON.JQ 1 2026-06-26 gron-jq "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ungron.jq \- rebuild JSON from gron.jq assignments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ungron.jq
.RI [ file ...]
.br
.B jq \-nRf ungron.jq
.RI [ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ungron.jq
reads the line-oriented assignments produced by
.BR gron.jq (1)
and reconstructs the original JSON. Each input line has the form
\fIpath\fR = \fIvalue\fR; it parses \fIpath\fR into a jq path and assigns the
decoded \fIvalue\fR there with
.BR setpath ,
folding every line into one result.
.PP
Because each assignment applies on its own, the input need not be complete or
ordered. Other tools may filter or rearrange the lines first, and whatever
remains is reconstructed. Blank lines and lines that are not assignments are
skipped, and a trailing carriage return is stripped, so grep, awk, and sort may
leave their usual debris in the stream. Missing intermediate objects and arrays
are created as needed, and the path decides which: a numeric component makes an
array, a bare or quoted key makes an object.
.PP
The path parser is quote-aware. A key that contains punctuation such as a dot,
square brackets, a double quote, or even an equals sign still round-trips,
because it is carried inside a JSON-encoded \fI["..."]\fR path component. A line
whose path is a lone \fI.\fR assigns the document root, as written by
.BR gron.jq (1)
for a top-level scalar or empty container.
.SH OPTIONS
.B ungron.jq
is a jq program and has no options of its own. It runs through
.BR jq (1)
with null input and raw input; the
.B \-n
and
.B \-R
flags are part of the script shebang. Further
.BR jq (1)
flags such as
.B \-c
may be appended.
.SH EXAMPLES
Round-trip through gron.jq:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ echo '{"a":[1,2]}' | gron.jq | ungron.jq \-c
{"a":[1,2]}
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 on success, or non-zero if a line cannot be parsed or
.BR jq (1)
fails.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.B ungron.jq
decodes the format that
.BR gron.jq (1)
emits. It is not a general parser and assumes well-formed input.
.PP
If every line under a container is filtered out, and the container had no
empty-container assignment of its own, that container is not recreated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gron.jq (1),
.BR jq (1)
.PP
gron:
.I https://github.com/tomnomnom/gron
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the gron-jq dotfiles package.
